I think this is I think this kind of thing is
probably sorely needed and I say that partly
because right now we've got a new department head
and and I'm sure that and we've got six people in
soil science retiring me being one of them Milford
being another and others coming so so we need uh uh
We need to be able to look at ourselves
differently. I think we need to be able to look at
ourselves department, experiment station, and
college.
And I wish there were a way that the university
could assess all levels of performance. We're not
like industry, and I don't think we should do
things quite the same way that they do
necessarily. But on the other hand, I think we have
to face the same reality as they do. And I think the
sooner we can... Here's something that's in the
university that I think is a real deterrent. Too
many long titles. What does one know about a man
who's got, he's dean, he's director, he's, you
know, and on and on and on. I know from, it just
happens my wife writes very well by hand. She has
addressed lots of invitations for certain people
on this campus in high places. Whenever you have to
cover up half of the envelope with a man's titles,
that's something's out of line as far as the public
goes. And I think we need to streamline titles some
way and make them functional. And I suspect we
probably ought to streamline the amount of tenure
that people have in a given administrative post,
even though it's comfortable for people. And I
have a high regard for our administrators. I think
probably some more changes are needed. All right.
I have just about finished all of the questions I
have. What have we not touched on that we should
have?
I
would say that one of the nice things about here is
that we do have the opportunity to interact with
some very nice students in social settings. It
just happens that I go to the church across the
street. not that it wouldn't have been just as well
as many others, but what you'd say the student
foundations around our campus certainly being a
part of those and interacting with the students in
those is a privilege and an opportunity and an
important part of our academic life, as I see. And I
haven't done more than my share, but I've enjoyed
what I've done. And I hope to continue some of that.
I think that we all need to keep our breadth Just as I
said earlier that I go on field trips a lot. I don't
know what kind of field trips people need in other
disciplines, but in soil science you have to go
into the field. And one of the things that I worked
into to my core teaching some years ago was a
half-day field trip in which I try to illustrate
the high points of the course in terms of minerals.
And that's evolved through our research. And
every site we go to, we have some kind of a research
base for 20 specimens of different conditions,
wetlands, mine lands, soil. And I think that's
important. One thing that I didn't mention, for I
think 16 years, I was the chair of the teaching clay
mineralogy
symposium of the International Clay Society. It
meets every four years. Well, that was a great
opportunity. It kind of fitted in with the fact
that I taught seminar for about that number of
years in the department, graduate seminar in soil
science. And I was privileged in that to interact
with a diversity of people and ask them to
participate as well as put something into the
program myself. And I think that we need more of
that as far out as we can reach. Sigma Xi and the
people in chemistry have done the best job that I
know about on campus by cutting across scientific
barriers and bringing people together. There's a
little chemistry in so many phases of science, and
a whole lot of some. And I think that sort of thing is
really important.
And in this chromium work that I mentioned to you, I
got down to the end of publishing that paper and got
a really good set of reviews on that manuscript.
And one of them said you should have data on the
electronic status of those manganese oxides.
Well, that was not something I had ever done.
Didn't have an instrument in my department to do
that. So I ferreted out a person in chemistry who
turned out to be a well-spoken Chinaman who had
finished his doctor's degree in chemistry and was
badly needed in publication. very much agreed if
he had helped me define the electronic status in
those minerals. And within a week, we had done the
most of that. And it'll appear in the journal
within the next few months. And so that's the kind
of cross-fertilization that we need a lot more of.
And I think we'd welcome a lot of administrators
back into the teaching lecture halls and back into
the research laboratories if that could ever be
managed. Anything else we've left out that we need
to be sure to cover?
I think every scientist needs some skills in
addition to theory. Mine happens to be electron
microscopy and x-ray diffraction and a few of
those. You sound like a land grant person as
compared to a theoretical university person.
Yes, that's right. I mentioned sabbaticals. The
travel is really important and it's built well
into my profession. And I think that, I don't know
how it fits everybody, but I think a great many of us
as scholars, we need to do a significant amount of
traveling. How adequate have you found the
library resources here when you needed?
They have generally been quite good. Being in a
focused area, and I have usually taken Sometimes
as many as 12 journals, right now it's not that
many. But I have my library, three different
bookcases in a row in my office. And my group uses
them more than any others. And the computer is
helping us a lot in that regard. But I think we just,
as I see it, we sort of gradually kept ahead of not
being so good. Like the library that's been built
on West Campus is a tremendous asset to us. But
we've got to equip it with our journals and things.
Just as we're doing that, we're merging into the
electronic age of publishing, and we don't quite
know how that's all going to come together. So I
guess we have to run faster.
Something that I've touched on just a little, and
I'll just mention again, and that is that, and this
is something I have invested a little of my own
money into through a scholarship, having readily
available money. so that when a scientist from
anywhere in the world says, I want to come and work
with you for a summer or a term or a month or
something, you can say with confidence, well, we
can work it out. And we do much better at
complimenting people for what they want to do. In
this case, it would be kind of like a mini
sabbatical type of thing. Or maybe it would. with
somebody else's money make it into a sabbatical.
We're always, I think, having opportunities with
people from Africa or the Middle East or some
remote little tropical country that has very
limited resources and equipment. They need to
have some help, and they have the least money. and
of course the same thing applies to students but it
can work here again we have to get out of our box it
can work helping graduate students it can also
work helping a faculty member who has to go back and
support his family in mexico but he can work in
increments it challenges our degree granting way
of doing they may end up getting his doctor's
degree in Mexico and doing his basic research at
A&M, but that's all right if that's what it takes,
as I see it. I've encountered that. I think you've
done well. Should A&M attempt to get any larger?
That's kind of like asking about gravity or the
weather. I think it's really hard to give a good
answer on that. I'd say that's not probably going
to be decided by faculty like me. I would say what we
need to do, we need to create cultural villages,
scientific and cultural villages, and promote
the interaction within them and among them. And
that's the way I believe we can meet the public's
need and meet our local need. We just finished.
Last year we had a little black young lady from
Corpus to come and work. She's a junior in high
school. This is a part of their programs. They
called it ALPS program, moving to higher planes.
This year they called it high school student
research. Less students. We had one from Houston
this year. When that student came in, tall, very
attractive, both McGann and other, black
student, doesn't matter with me, very well
groomed, presented herself very well, came out of
I think one of the best high schools in Houston
area, call it a century school I think. She had much
more spirit.
After she interacted with that group, I think she
turned back into her high schoolish perspective.
And as I look at it, we accomplished quite a lot. And
so much so I'm trying to get her data book back now.
She took it with her and we're exchanging letters
and phone calls on that. But that experience in
those two years has taught me that we need to we need
to help these young people when they come in, fit
into our cultural setting in a constructive way.
And if I were doing it, if I had to have one next
summer, which I have no idea whether I will or not, I
will make it a point to spend myself or somebody in
my group every lunch hour for the first week with
that young person. Showing them different things
that relate to the culture of the campus or relate
to the science we're trying to project. And not let
them get back into this very immature teenage
frame. That's all I can say. All right, my next to
last question then. Let's make believe someone
hands you a check for a million dollars. with one
condition, you must pass that check on to Texas
A&M, but you decide what is to be done with that
money. If you had the capability to make a
meaningful gift to Texas A&M, for what purpose
would you want the gift used? What's your favorite
project or task or game? Well, you know, you
really, excuse me, You really put me on the spot,
because I'm obviously very selfishly oriented
about something I know something about that I've
studied about for a long time. I think if I had a
million dollars with the freedom to use it in Texas
A&M, I would try to set up a program that embraced
the most basic parts of the science that I know
something about, soils and such, and extend it to
include the consumer.
In other words, I would try to integrate basic
research and extension as it's perceived in a
classic sense. And I'd like to apply it perhaps to a
given kind of a problem for maybe for five years.
And then try to wrap it up and then perhaps move to
another kind of a problem for the next five years.
And pull in faculty into that. And that way we could
not only be seeing what we do at the molecular level
here, and a lot of our science can be done at the
molecular level and move ahead much faster, but we
need to spend part of our time out there in the
applications area. And I think with that kind of an
assemblage and an active group, I think it would
be, we could efficiently use the resources from a
million dollars. Okay, last question. After
about a third of a century here, what feelings do
you carry in your heart for Texas A&M? Well, it's a
great place to work. It's a great place to work
because it offers a lot of freedom, it offers quite
a bit of support. It's dwindling in some respects.
Not in every respect. The student money that's
been plowed back into our department has been our
salvation in recent years. I don't know if that's
the best way to go or not, but that's the way it's
going. It certainly helps.
I'm just, I'm kind of tired now, and I guess I didn't
do very well with your last question. No, no, no.
Say again what your last question was. What
feelings do you carry in your heart about Texas
A&M?
I'm not beyond being emotional, but I'm not very
emotional, really. I'm more factual oriented, I
think.
I really like the the high purpose that A&M has
exemplified in its selection of leaders, and the
fact that I've gotten to know a significant number
of them, but I don't go out beating the bushes to
meet people very much. And I'm glad to be able to go
anywhere else in the country and say I work for
Texas A&M, and there are a lot of good people there
doing their best. And there's a good ending right
there.